# Logistic-regression-vs-SVM-vs-Decision-Tree-vs-Random-Forest

This report deals with the comparison between Logistic regression, SVM, Decision Tree and Random Forest for predicting the type of diabetes of patients of Khidmah Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh. This report also shows us which algorithm is performing better in the medical field.

## Abstract:
Diabetes is a serious disease that occurs due to a high level of sugar in the blood for a long time. Like many other countries, there are a lot of people in Bangladesh who are suffering from Diabetes. The aim of this study is to understand how well logistic regression model, SVM model, decision tree model and random forest model work on predicting the type of diabetes of patients of Khidmah Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh and use the same models on Pima Indian diabetes dataset to compare the result of the models on our dataset and on Pima Indian diabetes dataset. Type 1, type 2 and gestational diabetes are the most common forms of diabetes. In this work, I tried to predict type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The dataset has a total of 759 rows and 15 columns. Each row represents a new patient and each column represents a new feature. The dataset was collected from Khidmah Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Supervised machine learning techniques have been used on the dataset to build a model and to predict the type of diabetes. The comparison between the models was made on the basis of each model's prediction accuracy and best feature selection. The comparison between the models was done in three ways. In the first way, the comparison between the models was done by taking one third of the dataset. In the second way, the comparison between the models was done by taking two third of the dataset. And in the third way, the comparison between the models was done by taking the whole dataset. There models achieved different accuracy.

## Diabetes in Bangladesh:
Physicians said that underweight babies have a high chance of diabetes, which is very appropriate for Bangladesh. According to the National Low Birth Weight Survey Bangladesh 2015, in Bangladesh, at least 22.6% of babies are born with a small birth weight (below 2.5 kg). In comparison, people eat fast food, such as pizzas, burgers and and buy soft beverages containing large amounts of fat and sugar. Highlighting increasing health knowledge and improvements in people's lifestyles, Professor Azad said that "Eating more fat and sugar and absence of physical activity means you face a high risk of diabetes". He also said that “In developed countries you won't find fast food joints around schools, but we have restaurants everywhere” . He also said that “In developed countries you won't find fast food joints around schools, but we have restaurants everywhere”. Dr Khalequzzaman of BSMMU said “Some 40 lakh people in Bangladesh are estimated to have undiagnosed diabetes. The government can conduct mass screening by HbA1c so that people can follow the diet and lifestyle to control diabetes and protect themselves from developing further complications associated with diabetes”. Professor Azad said that “Some 80 lakh people in Bangladesh suffer from diabetes. It causes 6.4 percent of total deaths in the country”. The Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU) survey of 2,000 people in Dhaka slums in 2016 showed that 19% of adults(15.6% males and 22.5% females) had diabetes. 

##FUTURE WORK:
In future, I would like to add more data to check how these models are working on large datasets. I can also try to improve the accuracy on this dataset by applying different approaches. One approach is to transform the dataset into a more suitable dataset by doing data preprocessing and then apply these models to check if there is any improvement in performance. Changing the number of folds in K-fold cross validation can also be a reason for improved performance. I shall also try more data visualization techniques.



